---
title: "FDD massive MIMO via UL/DL channel covariance extrapolation and active channel sparsification" 
date: 2019-01-01
url: /5/
tags: ["FDD massive MIMO","downlink covariance estimation","active channel sparsification"]
authors: "Mahdi Barzegar Khalilsarai, Saeid Haghighatshoar, Xinping Yi, and Giuseppe Caire"
description: "We propose active channel sparsification, a method of training multi-user MIMO Downlink channels in FDD mode with any given pilot length, while maximizing the effective channel matrix rank. IEEE Transactions on Wireless Communications, 2019." 
summary: "We propose active channel sparsification, a method of training multi-user MIMO Downlink channels in FDD mode with any given pilot length, while maximizing the effective channel matrix rank. IEEE Transactions on Wireless Communications, 2019." 

---

---

##### Download

+ [Paper on IEEE Xplore](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/8542957)

---

##### Summary

We propose a novel method for massive multipleinput multiple-output (massive MIMO) in frequency division
duplexing (FDD) systems. Due to the large frequency separation
between uplink (UL) and downlink (DL) in FDD systems, channel
reciprocity does not hold. Hence, in order to provide DL channel
state information to the base station (BS), closed-loop DL channel
probing, and channel state information (CSI) feedback is needed.
In massive MIMO, this typically incurs a large training overhead.
For example, in a typical configuration with M  200 BS
antennas and fading coherence block of T  200 symbols,
the resulting rate penalty factor due to the DL training overhead,
given by max{0, 1 − M/T }, is close to 0. To reduce this
overhead, we build upon the well-known fact that the angular
scattering function of the user channels is invariant over frequency
intervals whose size is small with respect to the carrier frequency
(as in current FDD cellular standards). This allows us to estimate
the users’ DL channel covariance matrix from UL pilots without additional overhead. Based on this covariance information,
we propose a novel sparsifying precoder in order to maximize
the rank of the effective sparsified channel matrix subject to
the condition that each effective user channel has sparsity not
larger than some desired DL pilot dimension Tdl, resulting in
the DL training overhead factor max{0, 1 − Tdl/T } and CSI
feedback cost of Tdl pilot measurements. The optimization of
the sparsifying precoder is formulated as a mixed integer linear
program, that can be efficiently solved. Extensive simulation
results demonstrate the superiority of the proposed approach
with respect to the concurrent state-of-the-art schemes based on
compressed sensing or UL/DL dictionary learning.

---

##### Citation

Barzegar Khalilsarai, Mahdi, Saeid Haghighatshoar, Xinping Yi, and Giuseppe Caire. "FDD massive MIMO via UL/DL channel covariance extrapolation and active channel sparsification." IEEE Transactions on Wireless Communications 18, no. 1 (2018): 121-135.
```BibTeX
@article{khalilsarai2018fdd,
  title={FDD massive MIMO via UL/DL channel covariance extrapolation and active channel sparsification},
  author={Khalilsarai, Mahdi Barzegar and Haghighatshoar, Saeid and Yi, Xinping and Caire, Giuseppe},
  journal={IEEE Transactions on Wireless Communications},
  volume={18},
  number={1},
  pages={121--135},
  year={2018},
  publisher={IEEE}
}
```

---